---
id: "9"
title: "COOKIE IDEAS FOR KIDS"
author: "Maria Clarkson"
picture: "/blogpics/kidscookies.svg"
date: "11/11/2022"
cta: |
    Try these fun and creative cookie ideas for your kids! Get creative in the kitchen and let their imaginations run wild with these delicious ideas. Let your kids pick their favorite cookie and get baking!
---
Cookies are always a hit with kids, and they can be a great way to get your little ones involved in the kitchen. Whether you’re baking for a birthday party, a special occasion, or just to have a sweet treat, here are some cookie ideas that are sure to delight your kids. 1. Chocolate Chip Cookies: This classic cookie is a surefire hit with kids. For extra fun, you can use a variety of chips, such as peanut butter chips, white chocolate chips, or butterscotch chips. 2. Oatmeal Raisin Cookies: Oatmeal raisin cookies are a great way to sneak some healthy ingredients into a delicious treat. You can add other ingredients like dried fruits, nuts, or chocolate chips to make them even more flavorful. 3. Sugar Cookies: Sugar cookies are a great way to get creative with cookie cutters and decorations. Kids can have a blast decorating their cookies with colorful sprinkles, icing, and other fun toppings. 4. Peanut Butter Cookies: Who doesn't love peanut butter cookies? These cookies are a great way to get protein in a tasty treat. 5. Shortbread Cookies: Shortbread cookies are a classic treat that’s easy to make, and they make a great base for adding fun decorations. 6. Snickerdoodles: Snickerdoodles are another classic cookie that’s always popular with kids. The combination of cinnamon, sugar, and butter makes them irresistibly delicious. 7. Brownies: Brownies are a great way to satisfy the chocolate cravings of any kid. You can make them with nuts, chocolate chips, or even marshmallows for an extra special treat. No matter what kind of cookie you decide to make, your kids are sure to love it. Baking with your kids can be a great way to bond and create memories that will last a lifetime. So get in the kitchen and get baking.