---
id: "7"
title: "THE HISTORY OF CHOCOLATE: A JOURNEY FROM BEAN TO BAR AT YOUR LOCAL CHOCOLATE SHOP"
author: "Enzo Addams"
picture: "/blogpics/choco.svg"
pictureB: "/blogpics/chocoB.svg"
date: "29/12/2022"
cta: |
    Experience the sweet journey of chocolate and taste a delicious variety of chocolate bars your local chocolate shop has to offer! Explore the history of chocolate and savor the flavors of the past.
---
Chocolate is one of the world’s favorite **treats**, and its journey from bean to bar at your local chocolate shop is quite an interesting one. <br>The history of chocolate is one filled with fascinating facts and interesting stories. <br><br>Chocolate is believed to have originated in the areas around Central and South America, where the **cocoa plant** was first cultivated. The ancient **Aztecs and Mayans** were the first to enjoy the sweet treat, and were the first to make a drink from cocoa beans. <br>This drink was made by roasting and grinding cocoa beans and then combining them with water, chili peppers, and other spices. <br><br>In the **16th century,** chocolate was brought to **Europe** by Spanish explorers and soon became a popular treat among the wealthy. <br>It was not until the Industrial Revolution in the **19th** century that chocolate became mass produced and affordable for the general public. <br>At the same time, advances in technology made it possible to create new forms of chocolate, such as milk chocolate and white chocolate. <br>The first chocolate bar was created in 1847 by a London-based chocolate company named **Fry’s**. <br><br>Today, the process of making chocolate is still largely the same. Cocoa beans are harvested, fermented, dried, and roasted. The beans are then ground into a paste called **chocolate liquor**, which is then mixed with cocoa butter, sugar, and milk to form a creamy chocolate mixture. This mixture is then molded into bars and cooled. <br>When you visit your local chocolate shop, you can find a variety of different types of chocolate, from dark chocolate to milk chocolate to white chocolate. You can also find specialty chocolates, such as truffles, pralines, and ganache. <br><br>The journey of chocolate from bean to bar is an amazing one, and it is a testament to how far chocolate has come over the centuries.<br> So the next time you visit your **local chocolate shop,** take a moment to appreciate the history of the chocolate you’re about to enjoy!
        